hey guys today I'm going to share with
you one of my favorite recipes for a
springtime brunch
it's my blueberry almond tea cake I love
this recipe because it is so light so
delicious and so easy to put together it
also gives you one more reason to use
your fluted tart pan but if you don't
have a tart pan not to worry you can
make this recipe in a regular cake pan a
springform pan or even turn them into
muffins let me show you how to make it
so the first thing we're going to do is
spray our tart pan lightly with some
baking spray I do like to go over it
with a pastry brush after just to make
sure that all of that baking spray is in
all the nooks and crannies then you can
set that aside and then in a large bowl
we're going to add 3/4 cup of melted
unsalted butter and 1/4 cup of your
canola oil or vegetable oil I do like to
mix the two fats because the butter is
going to give us great flavor and then
the pure fat in the form of the oil is
going to make this cake extra moist and
then you're also going to add a cup of
sugar and you can go ahead and whisk
that up until it's nice and combined and
then we are going to add two eggs and
you can whisk those up and then for our
almond flavor we're going to add a
teaspoon and a half of pure almond
extract and a quarter cup of water so
you can combine all that just until it's
nice and mixed and set that aside then
in a smaller Bowl we're going to whisk
together our dry ingredients
so you're going to take a cup and a half
of regular all-purpose flour 2 teaspoons
of baking powder and a teaspoon of salt
go ahead and just whisk that up and then
you're going to take your dry
ingredients and slowly add it to your
wet ingredients I do like to use a wire
whisk for this because I find you don't
have to actually mix it as much because
you want to be gentle so that you don't
end up with a tough cake so go ahead and
just add it in thirds combining all the
while and then we're going to add 6
ounces of fresh blueberries you can go
ahead and mix those up with a spatula
just being gentle making sure that you
don't smash your blueberries as you mix
them in and then we're going to transfer
this batter into our prepared tart pan
and then just go ahead and smooth it out
with the spatula then we're going to add
a quarter cup of sliced raw almonds
right on the top and then the final
thing I like to do is just take the cake
pan shake it a little bit bang
counter just to make sure that all of
that batter is actually at the same
level and then we're going to pop it in
a 350-degree oven you'll know that the
cake is done when it's nice and golden
brown on the top and that a toothpick
comes out clean then go ahead and allow
your cake to cool this cake is actually
best at room temperature and it's also
going to make it easier to get that cake
out of the tart pan when it's nice and
cool and then we're going to dust the
whole thing with some powdered sugar and
you'll see how beautiful this cake
that's so simple to put together
turns out to be it's perfect for a
celebratory brunch either for Easter
that's coming up or for Mother's Day
bridal shower baby shower any of those
types of springtime occasions this would
be perfect for and then you can go ahead
and serve it with your favorite tea or
coffee it really is such a simple recipe
that just impresses a crowd because it
looks so fancy and elegant when it
really took you hardly any time to put
together and when you cut into this cake
you will see how light and delicate the
texture is and you have those beautiful
fresh blueberries mingling with that
almond extract it's such a winning
flavor combination I hope you guys give
this one a try and let me know what you
think and I also hope that you subscribe
for more quick and easy recipes and I
will see you back here next week for
another one until then bye